Once you are done
training your model
and have optimized
the cost function,
you still need to actually
get the word embeddings.
In this video, I will show
you several methods to
extract the word embeddings
from the weights
learned by your model.
You have already implemented
forward propagation,
back propagation,
and gradient descent to train
the neural network of a
continuous bag-of-words model.
But how do you get
the word embeddings out of
your trained neural nets?
As you may remember,
word embeddings are not
directly output by
the training process,
they are a by-product
of the process.
I'll now explain
how you can extract
word embeddings from
a trained neural net.
Remember, these are vectors
that carry the
meaning of the words
of the vocabulary based on
the context words in the corpus.
Once you've trained your
neural network after
iterating through all
of your training data,
possibly several
times, you can extract
three alternative word
embedding representations.
The first possibility is
to consider each column of
W_1 as the column
vector embedding vector
of a word of the vocabulary.
Recall that matrix W_1
has V number of columns,
so it has one column for
each word in the vocabulary.
The mapping between
columns of W_1 and
words uses the same
order as the input rows.
For example, with
the corpus I am happy
because I'm learning
if the five rows of
the input vector or
matrix corresponds to;
am, because,
happy, I,
and learning, then in W_1,
the first column
will be the word
embedding column vector for am,
the second for
because, and so forth.
The second option to extract
word embeddings is
to use each row
of W_2 as the word
embedding row vector for
the corresponding word.
Matrix W_2 has V rows,
one row for each word
in the vocabulary.
Again, the order is the
same as the input
vector or matrix.
With our sample
corpus and inputs,
the first row would be the word
embedding row vector for am,
the second for
because, and so on.
The third and final
option is to take
the average of the two
previous representations.
If you want word
embedding column vectors,
you would average W_1 and
the transpose of W_2,
to obtain W_3,
a new N by V matrix.
You can then extract the
word embedding vectors from
each column of W_3 as
you did previously.
With our visual example,
the word embedding for am,
would be the first
column of W_3,
which would be the average of
the values of the first column
of W_1 and of the
first row of W_2.
In this week's assignment,
you'll be averaging
W_1 transpose and
W_2 to extract the word
embeddings as row vectors.
Now that you know how to
train these word vectors,
in next week's video you'll
learn how to test them.
Specifically, you will learn
about two types of
evaluation metrics.
The first type is
intrinsic evaluation,
and the second type is
extrinsic evaluation.